.TH EXCALI 1 "2026-07-12" "excali 0.2.0" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
excali \- open a .excalidraw file in the real Excalidraw, autosaving to the file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B excali
.I file.excalidraw
.br
.B excali
.RB [ \-h | \-\-help ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B excali
opens a drawing in the genuine Excalidraw web app and saves your edits back to
.I file.excalidraw
automatically. It is a single Bun script that is both the CLI and a small local
autosave server: the drawing opens in your browser, and this terminal stays
running as the server. Leave it open while you edit and press
.B Ctrl\-C
when you are done.
.PP
If
.I file.excalidraw
does not exist yet, a blank canvas is started and the file is created on the
first save. Edits autosave roughly 500ms after you stop drawing.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR \-h ", " \-\-help
Print usage and exit.
.SH FILES
.TP
.I file.excalidraw
The drawing being edited. Holds the elements you draw.
.TP
.I ~/.config/excali/config.json
Global config shared across all drawings: UI preferences (theme, canvas
background, zen/view mode, grid, snap) and your imported libraries. Global
preferences override whatever a drawing was saved with, so settings like dark
mode persist across reloads. Honors
.BR XDG_CONFIG_HOME .
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B XDG_CONFIG_HOME
Base directory for the global config file. Defaults to
.IR ~/.config .
.SH REQUIREMENTS
Bun, a browser, and internet access (Excalidraw and React load from the esm.sh
CDN). No other dependencies.
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
Open a drawing in the browser:
.B excali diagram.excalidraw
.TP
Start a new drawing (created on first save):
.B excali new-sketch.excalidraw
.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
.B 0
Help was requested, or the session ended normally.
.TP
.B 1
Bad usage.
.SH SEE ALSO
Project docs in
.IR PRODUCT.md .
.br
Excalidraw: https://excalidraw.com
